---
title: French Bulldog Grooming and Care 101
permalink: /blog/french-bulldog-care
author: James
date: '2020-02-03T00:00:00-05:00'
image: /french-bulldog-care.jpg
categories:
  - french bulldog care
description: >-
  Learn a few tips and ticks on how to properly groom your frenchie. French
  Bulldogs are a sensitive dog breed so natural products work best.
tags:
  - French Bulldog Grooming
  - French Bulldog Care
  - French Bulldog Health
chat: Hi! How can we help you today?
---
## What Does The French Bulldog Care 101 Consists of?

Before you start looking for French Bulldog Puppies for sale it’s important to research the breed and learn about the Frenchie care regime.

 French Bulldog care is not a piece of cake. You will have to be thorough and consistent with caring for your furry friend. Your utmost focus will have to be on food and grooming. So let's start with that...

### Feeding

Choose a high-quality food, but don’t be scared to spice it up. 

**_What do we mean by that?_**

Don’t rely on one food brand alone. Mix and match. Find what works best for your puppy and keep things fresh. I probably mentioned this in each blog I write, but I highly encourage feeding your furry friend fresh or raw based diet. 

You will avoid allergies, yeast and digestion issues.

Fresh food is also one of the mains steps you can take to increase your French Bulldogs Lifespan (link to the blog “increase French bulldog lifespan).

Avoid table scraps and unhealthy snacks. Remember if it’s unhealthy for you, it’s probably not good for your dog either. Overweight French Bulldogs are also more prone to joint, eye and breathing issues. Keeping your dog lean is one of the most important steps to good French Bulldog care. 

[Click here to learn more about the diet we recommend for French Bulldogs.](https://ethicalfrenchie.com/french-bulldog-feeding-the-raw-diet/)

### Grooming

#### 1.Ears

Bulldogs tend to develop ear infections if you don’t pay special attention to those bat ears. Clean them weekly or as soon as you notice wax buildup. 

You can use a simple ear cleaning solution like [Epi-Optic Ear Cleaning solution](https://prf.hn/click/camref:1100l86im/destination:https%3A%2F%2Fwww.chewy.com%2Fvirbac-epi-otic-advanced-ear-cleaner%2Fdp%2F52807) or ear cleaning wipes. Both are as effective, but I personally prefer liquid over wipes.

**_Want to hear a little tip that will help to avoid yeasty ears?_**

If you notice that your French Bulldog is more prone to yeast ear infections take matters into your own hands by adding a few drops of apple cider vinegar to your pups' water, daily. 

#### 2. Thaaat Face

Keep that adorable face clean and yeast free. Face folds should be groomed daily and kept dry to avoid bacterial infections. After cleaning – apply the [Squishface Bulldog Balm](https://prf.hn/click/camref:1100l86im/destination:https%3A%2F%2Fwww.chewy.com%2Fsquishface-wrinkle-paste-dog-skin%2Fdp%2F189798).

Another Natural Dog Company product that should be your go it is the [snout soother](https://shop.naturaldogcompany.com/collections/all/products/snout-soother-tin). Apply it on your French Bulldogs nose daily to prevent it from crusting up. 

#### 3.	Teeth

Yes, my friends. Teeth cleaning is a must. It’s not only going to save you a couple of 100$ when it comes to professional teeth cleaning but will also prolong your Frenchies life expectancy.

It’s not that difficult and doing it 1x per week is enough. If your Frenchie refuses to cooperate you can use [Fresh Breath water additive](https://prf.hn/click/camref:1100l86im/destination:https%3A%2F%2Fwww.chewy.com%2Ftropiclean-fresh-breath-drops-22oz%2Fdp%2F114717) that fights plaque, prevents gingivitis and eliminates bad breath. 

#### 4. Bath Time

Don’t over-do it. And use a good hypoallergenic shampoo followed up by a quality conditioner for a silky and soft coat. We highly recommend this Hydrating Butter leave-in conditioner by Warren London. 

Over bathing will lead to dry skin that might cause irritation and itching. That’s not always the case, but chances are, it’s going to happen. 

So, what shampoo should you use for your Frenchie’s sensitive coat?

[•	4-Legger Organic, Hypo-Allergenic, Lemongrass & Aloe Dog Shampoo](https://prf.hn/click/camref:1100l86im/destination:https%3A%2F%2Fwww.chewy.com%2F4-legger-organic-hypo-allergenic%2Fdp%2F141858)

[•	MiconaHex+Triz Shampoo for Dogs & Cats](https://prf.hn/click/camref:1100l86im/destination:https%3A%2F%2Fwww.chewy.com%2Fmiconahextriz-shampoo-dogs-cats-16-oz%2Fdp%2F114184)

[•	Rocco & Roxie Supply Co. Calm Dog Shampoo](https://prf.hn/click/camref:1100l86im/destination:https%3A%2F%2Fwww.chewy.com%2Frocco-roxie-supply-co-calm-dog%2Fdp%2F171950)



#### 5.Paws & Nails

Check your dog’s pads regularly. Not just for cleanliness but to ensure that they are not dry, cracked, or injured in any way. 

Excessive hair may grow between your dog’s toes. It can become matted or cause other problems. It should be trimmed to be even with the paw pads or slightly shorter.

This must be done carefully to prevent cutting your dog.

Keep your dog’s nails trimmed. Your vet and/or groomer can show you how to safely trim nails.

 If you do not feel comfortable doing it on your own, it is usually a quick and inexpensive trip to a groomer or your veterinarian’s office.

 It’s important not to cut too close to the quick since it can cause bleeding.

### Keep Your French Bulldog in Shape

French Bulldogs don’t need excessive exercise and tire quickly, but that doesn’t mean you don’t have to keep your pup in shape. 

Getting overweight will have a detrimental effect on their joins as well as their breathing. Kidney disease, heart disease, diabetes, and many others are also conditions linked to overweight French Bulldogs. 

**Your French Bulldog should be the leanest possible – without the ribs being visible. Ribs should be easily felt, but only visible once the dog inhales.** 

Don’t be scared to do light exercise with your Frenchie. 

_**What do we mean by light exercise?**_

Anything from visiting the dog park, playing fetch and tug of war to walking with a lightweight vest to build strength and muscle mass. 

Build up their fitness slowly over a couple of weeks/months, but of course, make sure you don’t over-exercise them. 

>
