---
author: james
title: Top 5 Health Concerns and Care Tips for French Bulldogs A Breeder's Perspective
permalink: /french-bulldogs-health-concerns-care-tips
date: '2023-05-09T23:41:05-04:00'
image: ../uploads/top-french-bulldog-health-concens.jpeg
categories:
  - french Bulldog care
tags: 
- french bulldog
- health concerns
- care tips
- breeder
- brachycephalic syndrome
- hip dysplasia
- intervertebral disc disease
- allergies
- cherry eye
description: Discover the top 5 health concerns faced by French Bulldogs and learn valuable care tips from a breeder's perspective. From Brachycephalic Syndrome to Cherry Eye, this article shares personal experiences and insights to help you raise a happy and healthy Frenchie.g'
top5health: true
hubspotneeded: true
---

## Top 5 Health Concerns and Care Tips for French Bulldogs: A Breeder's Perspective
As a dedicated French Bulldog breeder, I we are quite acquainted with the joys and challenges that come with raising these delightful puppies. Frenchies are known for their charming personalities and super cute flat faces and big eyes, but they are also prone to certain health issues. In this article, we'll go over some insights on the top 5 health concerns faced by French Bulldogs, along with care tips/preventative tips that have helped us ensure the well-being of our beloved dogs.

### 1. Brachycephalic Syndrome
Due to their flat faces and short noses, Frenchies can experience breathing difficulties known as Brachycephalic Syndrome. I have seen this issue affect some of my dogs, particularly during hot weather or excessive physical activity. As a breeder, this is something that can be prevented by mating a flatter faced frenchie (with almost no snout) to a frenchie with a longer snout, so that the resulting baby frenchie has just enough snout to have clear nasal passaged.

#### Care Tips:

At Ethical Frenchie we always make sure to keep my Frenchies cool and provide them with plenty of shade and water when we take them to the park on hotter days.
We use a harness instead of a collar to avoid choking our babies if they decide to randomly dart off in a different direction because of a distraction..
We carefully monitor their weight, as massive frechies that are overweight can exacerbate their many different potential breathing problems.
While there are so many little things we do every day we can assure you that our [**our puppies**](/french-bulldog-puppies/) (and adults) live comfortably and enjoy their lives to the fullest, one of them is not allowing them to get "Too" big.

### 2. Hip Dysplasia
Hip Dysplasia is a genetic condition that can affect French Bulldogs, causing joint pain and reduced mobility. We haven't encountered this personally but despite it not happening to us specifically, its something that we are constantly conscious of, so we take steps to minimize certain activities even if our dogs don't have hip dysplasia. Proactive attention to even the little things is much better than regretting it later.

#### Care Tips:

We always provide joint supplements such as glucosamine and chondroitin to support healthy joints.. in fact we sprinkle supplements on their food once a day during mealtime (to hide the nasty taste)
Again, maintain a healthy weight is ideal for Frenchies to reduce stress on their joints.
Despite the fact that they are well known Netflix n chill dogs (who would much rather be lazying away on the couch) moderate exercise to help them maintain muscle mass and joint health.
By taking these measures, We have seen significant improvement in the mobility and comfort of my dogs affected by hip dysplasia.

### 3. Intervertebral Disc Disease (IVDD)
As a breeder this is a well known fear that all Frenchie owners live with, While we haven't personally had any instances of Intervertebral Disc Disease (IVDD) affecting our French Bulldogs, it can happen at any time. This spinal condition can cause severe pain, nerve damage, and even paralysis if left untreated.
[**_Read More for a deeper dive into IVDD and how to recognize the symptoms_**](about IVDD french-bulldog-ivdd-prevention)
#### Care Tips:

We closely monitor my Frenchies' weight to reduce stress on their spine.
Also we absolutely prevent high-impact activities like jumping on and off furniture (the number one cause of severe damage) to avoid injuries. to an extent we try to reducde the frequency of running up and down stairs, so we use a doggy gate at the bottom of the stairs.
We provide a comfortable and supportive bed to help maintain spinal health.
With proper care and attention, a dog with IVDD have been able to enjoy a good quality of life.

### 4. Allergies
I've definitely seen my share of allergies in my Frenchies, ranging from food to environmental triggers. These allergies can cause skin irritation, itching, and gastrointestinal issues.  Just like children, you almost never know about allergies until they happen. Despite thoroughly genetic testing our Frenchie Moms and Dad's, allergies can still develop in puppies (though it ussually happens later in life)

#### Care Tips:

We collaborate with our veterinarian to identify and avoid allergens.
Generally we offer a balanced diet with limited ingredients to reduce the risk of food allergies.
And of course our place is impeccably clean.  These are all things tht you should do as well (ensuring you have a primary vet, and allowing your Frenchie to "eat clean".

By being on top of these things, even if allergies were to arise, I would be easily able to our dogs comfortable and symptom-free.

### 5. Cherry Eye
Cherry Eye isn't a condition we've dealt with very often as we choose quality moms and dads and test them thoroughly before giving them an opportunity to make frenchie babies.  But in general, Cherry Eye occurs when the gland of the third eyelid prolapses, causing a red, swollen mass in the corner of the eye.
This is something that your vet can easily handle, but its much less stressful for you as a pawrent to get puppy health insurance that covers cherry eye, like [**_Lemonade dog insurance_**](https://www.lemonade.com/pet/explained/cherry-eye/).

#### Care Tips:

we regularly check my Frenchies' eyes for signs of redness or swelling.
And occasionally we gently clean their eyes with a damp cloth to keep them free of debris.
We at Ethical Frenchie consult with our veterinarian if we notice notice any abnormalities in their eyes.
With early intervention and appropriate care, and despite very few (if any issues)  we've had success with the one or two instances, and have coached other breeders and customers towards successful outcomes that allowed their babies to retain perfect vision.

As a breeder, We are deeply committed to the well-being of my French Bulldogs pppies. By being proactive and providing them with the best possible care, I have been able to successfully address and manage these common health concerns. My hands-on approach to breeding and raising Frenchies has not only allowed us to overcome a lot of obstacles obstacles but has also helped me build strong, healthy, and happy dogs that bring joy to their families.

Raising French Bulldogs is a rewarding experience, and by being aware of these potential health issues and taking appropriate measures to prevent or manage them, you can ensure a long, happy life for your Frenchie. Remember, always consult with your veterinarian if you have concerns about your dog's health or need guidance on managing specific issues. By working together with your vet, you can give your Frenchie the care and attention they need to thrive.

French Bulldogs are incredible companions with their loving personalities and endearing appearances. As a breeder, I take pride in our success streak of providing great families with healthy puppies.

Remember if you're on the market for a frenchie puppy in the future please [**_Hop over to our Available Puppies page_**](puppies/)




