---
author: james
title: "French Bulldog Colors: From Standard to Exotic"
date: 2023-12-05 16:00:00 -0400
permalink: /blog/french-bulldog-colors-explained
categories:
  - Pied French Bulldog Color
  - Merle French Bulldog Color
  - Lilac French Bulldog Color
  - Blue French Bulldog Color
  - French Bulldog Colors
  - Fawn French Bulldog Color
  - Black French Bulldog Color
tags: 
  - French Bulldog
  - French Bulldog Colors
  - Standard Colors
  - Exotic Colors
  - Brindle Color French Bulldog
  - Blue French Bulldog
  - Merle French Bulldog
image: ../uploads/French_Bulldog_Colors.webp
description: "Discover what makes each Frenchie color special and how it reflects their charming personalities."
redirect_from: 
- /puppies/platinum-french-bulldog-puppy/
- /teacup-french-bulldog/
- /akc-french-bulldog-colors/
- /breeds/cream-french-bulldog/
- /french-bulldog-breed-profile-1117966
- /types-of-french-bulldogs/
- /tri-colored-french-bulldogs/
- /blue-fawn-french-bulldog/
- /breed/teacup-french-bulldog/
- /blue-french-bulldog/
- /blog/colors/
---


> Bonjour and welcome to our delightful exploration of the French Bulldog, a breed that's as charismatic as it is colorful. Join us on a vibrant journey through the rainbow of French Bulldog hues, from the classic elegance of standard colors to the rare and exotic shades that make each of these pups a unique masterpiece.


### Standard French Bulldog Colors: Dive into the world of French Bulldogs, starting with their classic colors. These are not just hues; they're a palette of personality! Here's the lineup:
- Brindle - A mesmerizing mix of dark and light, bringing a tiger-like elegance.
- Cream - Soft, serene, and as cuddly as a cloud. Sometimes also called “blonde” or “tan”
- Fawn - A gentle brown or red shade that radiates warmth and friendliness. They can rock a dark black mask, or be maskless.
- White – Fully white Frenchies are rare, and often prone to deafness.
- Pied Mixes –“The cow pattern” A playful patchwork that brings all the above together.

### Exotic French Bulldog Colors Now, let's venture into the extraordinary! These exotic colors are like the avant-garde fashion of the French Bulldog world:
- Blue – Fully gray coat with its unique charm.
- Merle - A spotted/contracting color.
- Lilac - A beautiful light gray/violet.
- Isabella - A shade so unique, it's like the French Bulldog's haute couture.
- Chocolate - Rich, deep, and utterly irresistible.
- Exotic Fawn - A delightful twist on the traditional fawn.
- Tan Points – “The Rottweiler” pattern. Brown markings on eyebrows, cheeks, and paws.
- Platinum: Exotic color (blue, lilac, chocolate, Isabella), covered in cream. 
- Pink – Yes, they come in Pink. Scroll to the bottom of the blog to learn about this new French Bulldog color.


As an expert in French Bulldogs, I frequently receive questions about the breed's color variations. Recognizing the lack of comprehensive resources on this topic, I was motivated to author a detailed guide.

 This guide aims to succinctly cover the spectrum of French Bulldog colors, addressing key queries, especially regarding pricing. It's crucial to note that the cost of these dogs varies, influenced by factors like color rarity, pedigree, and breeding rights. For instance, a French Bulldog with full American Kennel Club (AKC) registration typically commands a higher price than one purchased solely as a family pet.



<center><p><a class="uk-button uk-button-danger uk-border-pill uk-button-xlarge my-border-rounded" href="/french-bulldog-puppies"><span data-uk-icon="heart" class="uk-icon"><svg width="20" height="20" viewBox="0 0 20 20" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" data-svg="heart"><path fill="none" stroke="#000" stroke-width="1.03" d="M10,4 C10,4 8.1,2 5.74,2 C3.38,2 1,3.55 1,6.73 C1,8.84 2.67,10.44 2.67,10.44 L10,18 L17.33,10.44 C17.33,10.44 19,8.84 19,6.73 C19,3.55 16.62,2 14.26,2 C11.9,2 10,4 10,4 L10,4 Z"></path></svg></span> View Our Puppies</a></p></center>



### Discovering the Standard French Bulldog Colors and Patterns
{% include image.html src="standard-color-french-bulldogs.webp" alt="Standard Color French Bulldog" %}
 
Curious about the official colors and patterns of French Bulldogs? Let's delve into their rich history.
The journey of standard French Bulldog colors dates back to 1897, when brindle reigned supreme as the sole recognized color. This changed in 1911, following a revision of breed standards, which then included a variety of colors and patterns such as fawn, cream, and piebald. Fast forward to today, adherence to these standards remains pivotal, as any deviation leads to disqualification in competitive arenas.
The Range of Acceptable Colors The array of acceptable French Bulldog colors includes all shades of black brindle, fawn, white, brindle and white, and more, with the exception of certain disqualifying colors. Disqualifications occur with solid black, mouse, liver, black and tan, black and white, and white with black, as well as merle, fluffy, Isabella and the rest of exotics. 
Investing in Standard-Color French Bulldogs If you're considering adding a standard-color French Bulldog to your family, particularly from a reputable breeder, prices generally range between $3,500-$5,000 for a pet-quality dog. However, if you're seeking a pup from a lineage of champions, boasting exceptional quality and want to acquire full AKC breeding rights, prices may ascend to between $6,000-$10,000.






#### The Brindle Coat Color Pattern
{% include image.html src="brindle-french-bulldog.webp" alt="Brindle French Bulldog" %}

The Brindle French Bulldog presents an exquisite coat pattern, reminiscent of tiger pattern with fawn and black hairs. This distinctive brindle pattern features a fawn-colored base, elegantly striped with bands of black hairs. The range of brindle variations is fascinating, from the striking 'tiger brindle,' where the fawn hairs prominently weave their way through, to the more prevalent dark brindle, dominated by a rich tapestry of black. A special mention goes to the 'reverse brindle,' a lighter version where fawn takes center stage, noted for its relative rarity.
Despite being a foundational color of the breed and the first to be recognized, brindle French Bulldogs have become a rarer sight in recent times. This shift is largely due to the growing popularity and demand for exotic colors in the market. However, the classic brindle pattern remains a timeless symbol of the breed’s heritage and elegance.


#### The Piebald Pattern
{% include image.html src="pied-french-bulldog.webp" alt="pied french bulldog" %}
 
The piebald is not a French Bulldog color, it’s a pattern. The pied French Bulldog is one that has a pattern of pigmented spots on an unpigmented (white) background of hair.
The pied French Bulldog comes in multiple standard color variations. Brindle pied, fawn pied, red fawn pied, etc.. Of course, pied can also come in an exotic color variation, but we will discuss that more in-depth a little bit later.


### The Cream Coat Color
{% include image.html src="cream-french-bulldog.webp" alt="cream colored french bulldog" %}

The Cream French Bulldog is, often mistaken for the light fawn. Exhibiting a unique off-white, solid coat, this color is a result of a recessive dilution gene acting on the traditional fawn coat. 
What makes the cream Frenchie truly stand out is its stark black pigmentation, including the nose, eye rims, paw pads, and lips, contrasting beautifully against its creamy fur. This striking appearance is not only skin deep but is also rooted in their distinct genetic makeup, differentiating them significantly from their light-fawn relatives. An exotic variation of cream is called “Platinum”, which we will discuss in depth further down. 

#### The Fawn Coat Color
{% include image.html src="fawn-french-bulldog.webp" alt="fawn french bulldog" %}
 
The fawn French Bulldog colors come in different shades, from very light, almost cream looking ones, to a deep red fawn. They can have a mask, like the one pictured above, or be maskless.
Fawn can also be combined with an exotic color in which the dilution affects the “black mask”, eyes, nose and paw pads (Blue fawn, lilac fawn, chocolate fawn,..)



#### Black and Black Pied French Bulldog Colors
{% include image.html src="black-french-bulldog.webp" alt="black french bulldog" %}
 
Black and Black Pied French Bulldogs offer an intriguing twist. While they fall outside the standard color spectrum (because of the lack of brindle), their pricing aligns more with standard color Frenchies, making them an accessible choice for many.
Identifying a true black French Bulldog requires a keen eye, as the breed standard for 'black' is a solid, deep color, free from any brindle markings. This pure black coat is quite rare and involves a specific genetic profile, typically denoted as a/a in DNA terms.
If you're considering adding a black or black pied French Bulldog to your family, the price generally ranges from $3,500 to $5,000. This cost reflects the rarity and distinctiveness of their stunning, solid black coat.

<center><p><a class="uk-button uk-button-danger uk-border-pill uk-button-xlarge my-border-rounded" href="/french-bulldog-puppies"><span data-uk-icon="heart" class="uk-icon"><svg width="20" height="20" viewBox="0 0 20 20" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" data-svg="heart"><path fill="none" stroke="#000" stroke-width="1.03" d="M10,4 C10,4 8.1,2 5.74,2 C3.38,2 1,3.55 1,6.73 C1,8.84 2.67,10.44 2.67,10.44 L10,18 L17.33,10.44 C17.33,10.44 19,8.84 19,6.73 C19,3.55 16.62,2 14.26,2 C11.9,2 10,4 10,4 L10,4 Z"></path></svg></span> View Our Puppies</a></p></center>

### Exotic French Bulldog Colors and Patterns
In the fascinating world of French Bulldogs, 'exotic' colors and patterns refer to those not recognized or approved by the American Kennel Club (AKC). These unique hues and designs, while captivating, do not conform to the traditional breed standards set for show ring competitions. However, this doesn't diminish their appeal or the enthusiasm among breeders and enthusiasts for these distinctive dogs.
Registering an exotic-colored French Bulldog with the AKC can be more challenging compared to standard colors, and these dogs are not eligible for official dog show competitions. This exclusion has fostered a vibrant and diverse breeding culture outside the traditional show dog circuit.
The exotic color breeding sphere is a realm of innovation and creativity, often sparking debates and discussions within the broader dog breeding community. This area of breeding is marked by a dynamic interplay between preserving breed standards and embracing genetic diversity. The dialogue between show breeders and exotic color breeders is an ongoing conversation, reflecting the evolving nature of canine genetics and breed aesthetics. The following colors are considered exotic french bulldog colors.




#### Blue French Bulldog 
{% include image.html src="blue-french-bulldog.webp" alt="blue french bulldog coat color" %}
 
The striking blue hue of the Blue French Bulldog is a result of a dilution gene affecting eumelanin, responsible for liver and black coats, and occasionally red coats. The blue French Bulldogs are sometimes referred to as “Mouse Frenchies”.
This unique blue shade emerges when the dog inherits two 'dd' alleles, transforming a standard black coat into shades of blue, from light gray to deep blue-black. The eye of the Blue French Bulldog is blue in infancy, however, the color changes as they grow. Adult blue French bulldogs have light brown, amber, hazel, and grayish-green eyes. 
The distinctiveness of this color, identifiable by the subtle blue tint of the nose, places the Blue French Bulldog in the most desired color on the market, ranging from $4,500-$6,000. Please understand that all French Bulldog colors can come in a pattern variation as well. For example, we have a cutie pictured below. She is a Blue Pied (remember the pied pattern, or the “cow pattern”, we mentioned above). Every color can be combined with pied (lilac pied, fawn pied, brindle pied, chocolate pied, the list goes on and on). 
  
{% include image.html src="blue-pied-french-bulldog.webp" alt="blue pied french bulldog coat color" %}

[Read about the Blue French Bulldog color: And How to Care For Them.](/blog/what-is-a-blue-french-bulldog-and-how-to-care-for-them/) 



#### Lilac French Bulldog Colors
{% include image.html src="lilac-french-bulldog.webp" alt="lilac french bulldog coat color" %}
 
To delve deeper into the genetics of the Lilac French Bulldog, we explore the interplay of two recessive genes. The blue color in French Bulldogs is a dilution of the basic black coat and is indicated by the 'dd' genotype, where 'd' is the dilute gene. Similarly, the chocolate, or liver color, is due to a mutation at the B locus, with 'bb' signifying that both alleles are for the chocolate pigment.
For a French Bulldog to exhibit the lilac coloration, it must inherit two copies of both the dilute gene 'd' and the chocolate gene 'b', resulting in a 'bb/dd' genotype. This combination results in the stunning lilac shade, a very pale blue that often appears almost silver, accompanied by captivating light-colored eyes and a unique pinkish tint to their muzzle, further accentuating their rare and ethereal aesthetic.

#### Chocolate/ Liver
{% include image.html src="chocolate-french-bulldog.webp" alt="chocolate french bulldog coat color" %}
 
In the realm of canine genetics and French Bulldog colors, particularly concerning chocolate coloration, the determinant factor resides at the B locus. Here, the gene responsible for the black color in a dog's coat is subject to dilution. 
This gene presents in two forms, or alleles: 'B' for the dominant non-liver color and 'b' for the recessive liver color. For a dog to exhibit the chocolate, or liver, coat color, it must inherit two copies of the recessive allele, making its genotype 'bb'. This recessive trait requires both parents to contribute the 'b' allele, resulting in the dilution of the black pigment to the chocolate hue observed in the coat.



#### The Merle Pattern
{% include image.html src="merle-french-bulldog.webp" alt="merle french bulldog coat color" %}

The merle gene is known for producing a distinct, dappled pattern on the coat of a French Bulldog, often accompanied by changes in skin pigmentation. While visually striking, the merle pattern is subject to debate within the breeding community due to potential health complications arising from breeding two merle-patterned dogs. 
To mitigate health risks, it is advised that merle French Bulldogs be paired with non-merle counterparts for breeding purposes. The gene itself is not harmful; however, it's the breeding practices that can increase the likelihood of health issues. Merle Frenchies frequently exhibit unique eye colors, including vivid blue or heterochromia iridum—the latter being a captivating condition where the irises display varying colors. These rare and distinctive traits contribute to the higher valuation of merle French Bulldogs

#### Platinum French Bulldog
{% include image.html src="platinum-french-bulldog.webp" alt="platinum french bulldog coat color" %}

The striking Platinum French Bulldog color, is any variation of exotic colors covered in cream. Their coat color is cream, but you can detect signs of dilution by looking at their nose, eyes, lips, and paw pads.
While a regular cream French Bulldog has a black nose, dark eyes, and black paw pads, the Platinum French Bulldog will have a diluted version of that.

For example, a lilac Platinum French Bulldog will have light green eyes, a pink nose, and pink paw pads. Adorable, right?


#### Isabella French Bulldog Coat Color
{% include image.html src="isabella-french-bulldog.webp" alt="isabella french bulldog coat color" %}
 
Allow me to introduce the Isabella French Bulldog, a luxurious variant often described as the quintessential "true lilac" or "champagne lilac." This exquisite coloration emerges from a blend of blue and chocolate hues, with the chocolate aspect being notably identifiable through genetic testing (you might hear breeders use the term “testable”).
While the intricacies of coat color genetics may seem complex, it's sufficient to understand that the Isabella represents one of the most sought-after and rarest colors in the French Bulldog palette. Its allure is just beginning to captivate the wider community of French Bulldog enthusiasts.
This rarity and distinctiveness make the Isabella a coveted addition to any breeder's collection, often commanding premium prices upward of $15,000 to $20,000 for breeding rights. For those desiring an Isabella as a treasured family companion, the investment ranges between $7,000 and $10,000—a testament to its unique beauty and status within the breed.


### Exotic Fawn French Bulldog Variations
{% include image.html src="blue-fawn-french-bulldog.webp" alt="blue fawn french bulldog coat color" %}
Exotic fawn French Bulldogs can be easily distinguished from the regular black-masked fawn Frenchie, due to their bright green or amber eyes, and lighter face (blue fawn, lilac fawn, chocolate fawn,..)
Pricing for an exotic fawn French Bulldog will vary, but the general range is between $4,000-$6,000. They are absolutely gorgeous and a show-stopper everywhere they go.

 

#### Coat Color Combined with Tan.
{% include image.html src="tan-french-bulldog.webp" alt="tan-french bulldog coat color" %}
The "tan points" pattern in French Bulldogs is a distinctive and versatile trait, often reminiscent of the classic markings found on a Rottweiler. This pattern is characterized by tan or lighter-colored markings that typically appear over the eyes, on the cheeks, chest, legs, and beneath the tail. These specific areas of contrast provide a striking visual against the primary coat color. The Frenchie pictured above is a lilac and tan. 
The variety of colors that can exhibit the tan points pattern is extensive, including but not limited to black and tan, blue and tan, lilac and tan, and even merle and tan. Each combination offers a unique take on this pattern:
- Black and Tan: This classic variation features a rich black base with the tan points offering a sharp contrast, often seen in a more traditional look akin to the Rottweiler's.
- Blue and Tan: Here, the blue, a diluted black coat, serves as the backdrop for the tan accents, giving a cooler, more subdued yet equally stunning appearance.
- Lilac and Tan: A rarer ensemble where a soft, warm lilac coat is beautifully complemented by the tan markings, creating an almost pastel-like aesthetic.
- Merle and Tan: One of the most visually striking, this pattern combines the unpredictable swirls and patches of the merle with the structured tan points, resulting in a truly unique and eye-catching coat.
{% include image.html src="tan-2-french-bulldog.webp" alt="tan-2-french bulldog coat color" %} 
  
Each "tan points" variation not only adds to the aesthetic diversity within the breed but can also influence the rarity and value of the dog. The cutie above is a chocolate and tan Frenchie.


#### Pink French Bulldog 
{% include image.html src="pink-french-bulldog.webp" alt="pink-french bulldog coat color" %}
 
The Pink French Bulldog is a rare and enchanting hue that stands out in the canine world, a mesmerizing pale coat akin to a soft blush or pastel dawn, often paired with striking blue eyes. This subtle color, which might at first glance be mistaken for albinism, is in fact a light cream or fawn, resulting from rare genetic traits within the breed's DNA. It's important to note that these dogs are not true albinos, although their appearance may share some similarities due to their light pigmentation and eye color.
The "pink" gene refers to this genetic variant that causes a very pale cream or fawn coloration, distinct from regular fawn or cream shades seen in the breed. While the term "pink" is colloquial, the exact genetic basis of this coloration is still under investigation by breeders and geneticists. Genetic testing, such as that offered by UC Davis Veterinary Genetics Laboratory, can help identify the coat color genes and clarify the genetics behind these unique French Bulldog color. The Pink French Bulldog was introduced by a California breeder by the name “Blue Eyed Pinks”.

#### Fluffy French Bulldog
{% include image.html src="fluffy-french-bulldog.webp" alt="fluffy-french bulldog coat color" %}
The Fluffy French Bulldog, with its rare long hair gene, is a coveted variant within the breed, known for its lush, soft coat that sets it apart from the typical sleek-coated Frenchie. While these dogs are a fascination for many, their rarity comes with a significant price tag. For a Fluffy French Bulldog as a family pet, the cost can be around $10,000, a reflection of their unique genetics and the special care required for their luxurious coat. 
A standout in this exclusive category was Valentine, an Isabella fluffy purchased for $300,000 by a breeder, highlighting the extraordinary value placed on such exceptional examples within the breed.
<center><p><a class="uk-button uk-button-danger uk-border-pill uk-button-xlarge my-border-rounded" href="/french-bulldog-puppies"><span data-uk-icon="heart" class="uk-icon"><svg width="20" height="20" viewBox="0 0 20 20" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" data-svg="heart"><path fill="none" stroke="#000" stroke-width="1.03" d="M10,4 C10,4 8.1,2 5.74,2 C3.38,2 1,3.55 1,6.73 C1,8.84 2.67,10.44 2.67,10.44 L10,18 L17.33,10.44 C17.33,10.44 19,8.84 19,6.73 C19,3.55 16.62,2 14.26,2 C11.9,2 10,4 10,4 L10,4 Z"></path></svg></span> View Our Puppies</a></p></center>

#### Final Thoughts:
In closing, the diverse palette of the French Bulldog breed—from the classic brindles to the luxurious Fluffy—is a testament to its uniqueness. Each color variant, with its own genetic intricacies, adds to the breed’s desirability. Whether you're enchanted by the rare pink or the prestigious Isabella, every Frenchie is cherished for the joy they bring, making them much more than just a pet.

