---
author: james
title: "French Bulldog Colors: From Standard to Exotic"
date: 2025-08-05 16:00:00 -0400
updated: 2025-09-10
revised: "Post revised September 10, 2025"
permalink: /blog/french-bulldog-colors-explained
categories:
  - Pied French Bulldog Color
  - Merle French Bulldog Color
  - Lilac French Bulldog Color
  - Blue French Bulldog Color
  - French Bulldog Colors
  - Fawn French Bulldog Color
  - Black French Bulldog Color
tags: 
  - French Bulldog
  - French Bulldog Colors
  - Standard Colors
  - Exotic Colors
  - Brindle Color French Bulldog
  - Blue French Bulldog
  - Merle French Bulldog
image: ../uploads/French_Bulldog_Colors.webp
description: "Discover what makes each Frenchie color special and how it reflects their charming personalities."
redirect_from: 
- /puppies/platinum-french-bulldog-puppy/
- /teacup-french-bulldog/
- /akc-french-bulldog-colors/
- /breeds/cream-french-bulldog/
- /french-bulldog-breed-profile-1117966
- /types-of-french-bulldogs/
- /tri-colored-french-bulldogs/
- /blue-fawn-french-bulldog/
- /breed/teacup-french-bulldog/
---

> {% if page.updated %} > _Updated on {{ page.updated | date: "%B %d, %Y" }}_ {% endif %}

> Hello and welcome to this wonderful introduction to the French Bulldog which is a breed as colorful as it is. Get on board a vivid rainbow journey, spread the interesting colors of the French Bulldog, from the standard classic beauty to the rare and exotic shades that each of these pups makes a unique masterpiece.
  
### French Bulldog Shades Standard Colors Start off with a color of classic French Bulldogs, which are the standard ones. It isn't just a color; it's a personality statement that you carry! So, here we have the menu:
- Brindle - The hypnotizing play of dark and light colors, like the tiger, is both fantastic and chic.
- Cream - Soft, peaceful, and cuddly as a cloud. Sometimes also referred to as “blonde” or “tan.”
- Fawn - This color depicts a friendly and warm atmosphere with a light red or brown tint. They have the option of wearing a dark black mask or being maskless.
- White - The fully white Frenchies are hard to find, in fact, they are extremely rare and also tend to be deaf.
- Pied Mixes - "The cow pattern." A playful patchwork that showcases the combination of all the above.


### Exotic French Bulldog Colors Your next stop is denoting cool colors! The exotic colors in the French Bulldog universe are the avant-garde of fashion.
- Blue - A fully gray coat that gives blue its cool touch.
- Merle - A contrasting-spotted color.
- Lilac - A light gray mixed with a hint of violet.
- Isabella - A beautiful color of a French bulldog that is this chic and exclusive.
- Chocolate - In a very rich and deep way, it is the chocolate that you cannot resist.
- Exotic Fawn - A different version of the regular fawn.
- Tan Points – "The Rottweiler" pattern. Brown markings on eyebrows, cheeks, and paws.
- Platinum: An exotic color (blue, lilac, chocolate, Isabella) covered in cream.
- Pink - You read that right! Pink is the French Bulldog that you can know. For this new color, just scroll to the bottom of this blog.

Being a French Bulldog expert, I have often been asked questions about Alpine color variations. Failure to find the right information has motivated me to write a handbook.
 
This book is to furnish the breezy colors of French Bulldog and the most frequently asked questions about them, especially those about the price. One of the money issues that you need to keep in mind is the cost of these dogs, which is variable due to factors like color rarity, pedigree, and co-breeding rights. For example, the purchase of a fully registered French Bulldog with the American Kennel Club (AKC) is usually more expensive than the one bought as a pet only.


<center><p><a class="uk-button uk-button-danger uk-border-pill uk-button-xlarge my-border-rounded" href="/french-bulldog-puppies"><span data-uk-icon="heart" class="uk-icon"><svg width="20" height="20" viewBox="0 0 20 20" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" data-svg="heart"><path fill="none" stroke="#000" stroke-width="1.03" d="M10,4 C10,4 8.1,2 5.74,2 C3.38,2 1,3.55 1,6.73 C1,8.84 2.67,10.44 2.67,10.44 L10,18 L17.33,10.44 C17.33,10.44 19,8.84 19,6.73 C19,3.55 16.62,2 14.26,2 C11.9,2 10,4 10,4 L10,4 Z"></path></svg></span> View New Litters of Frenchie Puppies</a></p></center>

### In the Standard French Bulldog Colors and Patterns: A Quick Overview
{% include image.html src="standard-color-french-bulldogs.webp" alt="Standard Color French Bulldog" %}
 
Are you interested in the official colors and patterns of French Bulldogs? Let's explore their fascinating past.
The history of standard French Bulldog colors dates back to 1897 when the only color accepted was the brindle. That changed in 1911, following the amendment of the breed standards. In their new form, colors and patterns such as fawn, cream, and piebald were included. If we look into the present, compliance with such rules is still of utmost priority, as any transgression will lead a contestant to disqualification in dog shows.
Current Acceptable Colors - The available French Bulldog hues list includes all colors of black brindle, fawn, white, brindle and white, and many others but lacking the disqualifying colors. Disqualifications occur with certain colors such as solid black, mouse, liver, black and tan, black and white, and white with black, as well as merle, fluffy, Isabella and the rest of exotics. 
Pricing for the French Bulldog with Standard Colors Typically pet-quality dogs from a respected breeder start around $3,500-$5,000 for such standard color Frenchies. On the flip side, you can go for a puppy from a champion line, a pup of superior quality, and additionally, you want to have full AKC breeding rights to it. In such cases, the price may go between $6,000 and $8,000 or reach $10,000.


### The Brindle Coat Color Pattern
{% include image.html src="brindle-french-bulldog.webp" alt="Brindle French Bulldog" %}

The Brindle French Bulldog is a marvelous model that resembles tiger stripes with a combination of black and fawn hairs. The distinct brindle design is fawn in color, and it has black hairs that are beautifully striped on it. There is a wonderful range of brindle combinations, such as a very impressive 'tiger brindle' where the fawn hairs are almost everywhere, to the more common dark brindle, which is predominantly made of black. A special mention goes to the 'reverse brindle' which is a lighter one where the fawn will be most prominent and is known for being relatively rare.
Although the breed's original color and the only one recognized back then was brindle French Bulldogs are less seen as of late. This is mainly because of the massive demand and popularity of the exotic in the market. Yet, the classic brindle design is a great sign of the breed's legacy and charm.
### The Piebald Pattern
{% include image.html src="pied-french-bulldog.webp" alt="pied french bulldog" %}
 
Being a piebald is not a color of French Bulldog; rather, it is a pattern. The pied French Bulldog is one that is patterned with pigmented spots on an unpigmented (white) background of hair.
The piebald French Bulldog has many standard color variations available. Some include: brindle pied, fawn pied, red fawn pied, and others. Of course, the pied pattern can also come in such exotic color variations, but we can discuss that in detail later.
### The Cream Coat Color
{% include image.html src="cream-french-bulldog.webp" alt="cream colored french bulldog" %}

The Cream French Bulldog is often confused with a light fawn. They possess a solid off-white coat that isn't colorbase. Instead, the color is due to a recessive dilution gene interacting with the classic fawn coat. 
What truly makes the cream French Bulldog stand out is the incredible contrast of its creamy fur and the dark pigmentation on the eyes, nose, and mouth. The black eye rims, the black paw pads, and the black lips are gifts from the Bonus and Offspring genes that add to the beauty of Cream. Whereas, the main gene inherited from a light-fawn relative is the one that brings in the fawn color. One popular platinum variation of cream which we encounter later in the text. 

### The Fawn Coat Color
{% include image.html src="fawn-french-bulldog.webp" alt="fawn french bulldog" %}
 
The fawn French Bulldog shades range from very light, almost white, to the deep red fawn. They can be with or without a mask, like the one in the upper picture who has the mask.
Fawn can also be an exotic color that if the dilution of “black mask” is affected, it will have an effect on the eyes, nose, and paw pads, for example, Blue fawn, lilac fawn, and chocolate fawn, etc.
   
#### Black and Black Pied French Bulldog Colors
{% include image.html src="black-french-bulldog.webp" alt="black french bulldog" %}
 
Black and Black Pied French Bulldogs are a little bit black bent. They are not a standard color group (lacking brindle) but they belong to the normal pricing group for a standard color Frenchie.
The identifying black French Bulldog is a little bit tricky since the standard of color 'black' is a solid, deep hue totally without any brindle markings besides. This pure black coat can be quite a rarity and it involves a specific genetic composition which is represented as a/a in DNA.
If your family plans to embrace a black or black pied French Bulldog, the expected price will be somewhere between $3,500 and $5,000. The figure reflects the quality and the distinctiveness of their beautiful solid black coat with a rare and specific exhibited genetic makeup.

<center><p><a class="uk-button uk-button-danger uk-border-pill uk-button-xlarge my-border-rounded" href="/french-bulldog-puppies"><span data-uk-icon="heart" class="uk-icon"><svg width="20" height="20" viewBox="0 0 20 20" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" data-svg="heart"><path fill="none" stroke="#000" stroke-width="1.03" d="M10,4 C10,4 8.1,2 5.74,2 C3.38,2 1,3.55 1,6.73 C1,8.84 2.67,10.44 2.67,10.44 L10,18 L17.33,10.44 C17.33,10.44 19,8.84 19,6.73 C19,3.55 16.62,2 14.26,2 C11.9,2 10,4 10,4 L10,4 Z"></path></svg></span> View Our Puppies</a></p></center>

### Exotic French Bulldog Colors and Patterns
In the marvelous universe of French Bulldogs, 'exotic' colors and patterns are those which the American Kennel Club (AKC) has not yet recognized or approved. These gorgeous tints and designs, although attractive, do not conform to the standards set for the breed for canine shows. This does not lessen their beauty or enthusiasm for breeders and fans on these exceptional dogs.
Top quality exotic-colored French bulldogs are usually more difficult to ignore than their counterpart standard colors and are not entitled to enter official dog show competitions. This lack of inclusion has become a hub for the vibrant and ludic breeding culture existing outside the traditional show arena.
The sphere of exotic colors' breeding is a place where innovation and creativity rule, and sometimes it creates disputes and arguments within the big dog breeding community. This area of breeding is characterized by the tension between maintaining breed standards and welcoming genetic diversity. The argument between show breeders and exotic color breeders is a topic of discussion that is never-ending, and this is the reason for the changes in the features of the breeds and the genetics of the phenomena. The following colors are considered exotic french bulldog colors.






#### Blue French Bulldog 
{% include image.html src="blue-french-bulldog.webp" alt="blue french bulldog coat color" %}
 
The striking blue hue of the Blue French Bulldog is a result of a dilution gene affecting eumelanin, responsible for liver and black coats, and occasionally red coats. The blue French Bulldogs are sometimes referred to as “Mouse Frenchies”.
This unique blue shade emerges when the dog inherits two 'dd' alleles, transforming a standard black coat into shades of blue, from light gray to deep blue-black. The eye of the Blue French Bulldog is blue in infancy, however, the color changes as they grow. Adult blue French bulldogs have light brown, amber, hazel, and grayish-green eyes. 
The distinctiveness of this color, identifiable by the subtle blue tint of the nose, places the Blue French Bulldog in the most desired color on the market, ranging from $4,500-$6,000. Please understand that all French Bulldog colors can come in a pattern variation as well. For example, we have a cutie pictured below. She is a Blue Pied (remember the pied pattern, or the “cow pattern”, we mentioned above). Every color can be combined with pied (lilac pied, fawn pied, brindle pied, chocolate pied, the list goes on and on). 
  
{% include image.html src="blue-pied-french-bulldog.webp" alt="blue pied french bulldog coat color" %}

[Read about the Blue French Bulldog color: And How to Care For Them.](/blog/what-is-a-blue-french-bulldog-and-how-to-care-for-them/) 



#### Lilac French Bulldog Colors
{% include image.html src="lilac-french-bulldog.webp" alt="lilac french bulldog coat color" %}
 
To delve deeper into the genetics of the Lilac French Bulldog, we explore the interplay of two recessive genes. The blue color in French Bulldogs is a dilution of the basic black coat and is indicated by the 'dd' genotype, where 'd' is the dilute gene. Similarly, the chocolate, or liver color, is due to a mutation at the B locus, with 'bb' signifying that both alleles are for the chocolate pigment.
For a French Bulldog to exhibit the lilac coloration, it must inherit two copies of both the dilute gene 'd' and the chocolate gene 'b', resulting in a 'bb/dd' genotype. This combination results in the stunning lilac shade, a very pale blue that often appears almost silver, accompanied by captivating light-colored eyes and a unique pinkish tint to their muzzle, further accentuating their rare and ethereal aesthetic.

#### Chocolate/ Liver
{% include image.html src="chocolate-french-bulldog.webp" alt="chocolate french bulldog coat color" %}
 
In the realm of canine genetics and French Bulldog colors, particularly concerning chocolate coloration, the determinant factor resides at the B locus. Here, the gene responsible for the black color in a dog's coat is subject to dilution. 
This gene presents in two forms, or alleles: 'B' for the dominant non-liver color and 'b' for the recessive liver color. For a dog to exhibit the chocolate, or liver, coat color, it must inherit two copies of the recessive allele, making its genotype 'bb'. This recessive trait requires both parents to contribute the 'b' allele, resulting in the dilution of the black pigment to the chocolate hue observed in the coat.



#### The Merle Pattern
{% include image.html src="merle-french-bulldog.webp" alt="merle french bulldog coat color" %}

The merle gene is known for producing a distinct, dappled pattern on the coat of a French Bulldog, often accompanied by changes in skin pigmentation. While visually striking, the merle pattern is subject to debate within the breeding community due to potential health complications arising from breeding two merle-patterned dogs. 
To mitigate health risks, it is advised that merle French Bulldogs be paired with non-merle counterparts for breeding purposes. The gene itself is not harmful; however, it's the breeding practices that can increase the likelihood of health issues. Merle Frenchies frequently exhibit unique eye colors, including vivid blue or heterochromia iridum—the latter being a captivating condition where the irises display varying colors. These rare and distinctive traits contribute to the higher valuation of merle French Bulldogs

#### Platinum French Bulldog
{% include image.html src="platinum-french-bulldog.webp" alt="platinum french bulldog coat color" %}

The striking Platinum French Bulldog color, is any variation of exotic colors covered in cream. Their coat color is cream, but you can detect signs of dilution by looking at their nose, eyes, lips, and paw pads.
While a regular cream French Bulldog has a black nose, dark eyes, and black paw pads, the Platinum French Bulldog will have a diluted version of that.

For example, a lilac Platinum French Bulldog will have light green eyes, a pink nose, and pink paw pads. Adorable, right?


#### Isabella French Bulldog Coat Color
{% include image.html src="isabella-french-bulldog.webp" alt="isabella french bulldog coat color" %}
 
Allow me to introduce the Isabella French Bulldog, a luxurious variant often described as the quintessential "true lilac" or "champagne lilac." This exquisite coloration emerges from a blend of blue and chocolate hues, with the chocolate aspect being notably identifiable through genetic testing (you might hear breeders use the term “testable”).
While the intricacies of coat color genetics may seem complex, it's sufficient to understand that the Isabella represents one of the most sought-after and rarest colors in the French Bulldog palette. Its allure is just beginning to captivate the wider community of French Bulldog enthusiasts.
This rarity and distinctiveness make the Isabella a coveted addition to any breeder's collection, often commanding premium prices upward of $15,000 to $20,000 for breeding rights. For those desiring an Isabella as a treasured family companion, the investment ranges between $7,000 and $10,000—a testament to its unique beauty and status within the breed.


### Exotic Fawn French Bulldog Variations
{% include image.html src="blue-fawn-french-bulldog.webp" alt="blue fawn french bulldog coat color" %}
Exotic fawn French Bulldogs can be easily distinguished from the regular black-masked fawn Frenchie, due to their bright green or amber eyes, and lighter face (blue fawn, lilac fawn, chocolate fawn,..)
Pricing for an exotic fawn French Bulldog will vary, but the general range is between $4,000-$6,000. They are absolutely gorgeous and a show-stopper everywhere they go.

 

#### Coat Color Combined with Tan.
{% include image.html src="tan-french-bulldog.webp" alt="tan-french bulldog coat color" %}
The "tan points" pattern in French Bulldogs is a distinctive and versatile trait, often reminiscent of the classic markings found on a Rottweiler. This pattern is characterized by tan or lighter-colored markings that typically appear over the eyes, on the cheeks, chest, legs, and beneath the tail. These specific areas of contrast provide a striking visual against the primary coat color. The Frenchie pictured above is a lilac and tan. 
The variety of colors that can exhibit the tan points pattern is extensive, including but not limited to black and tan, blue and tan, lilac and tan, and even merle and tan. Each combination offers a unique take on this pattern:
- Black and Tan: This classic variation features a rich black base with the tan points offering a sharp contrast, often seen in a more traditional look akin to the Rottweiler's.
- Blue and Tan: Here, the blue, a diluted black coat, serves as the backdrop for the tan accents, giving a cooler, more subdued yet equally stunning appearance.
- Lilac and Tan: A rarer ensemble where a soft, warm lilac coat is beautifully complemented by the tan markings, creating an almost pastel-like aesthetic.
- Merle and Tan: One of the most visually striking, this pattern combines the unpredictable swirls and patches of the merle with the structured tan points, resulting in a truly unique and eye-catching coat.
{% include image.html src="tan-2-french-bulldog.webp" alt="tan-2-french bulldog coat color" %} 
  
Each "tan points" variation not only adds to the aesthetic diversity within the breed but can also influence the rarity and value of the dog. The cutie above is a chocolate and tan Frenchie.


#### Pink French Bulldog 
{% include image.html src="pink-french-bulldog.webp" alt="pink-french bulldog coat color" %}
 
The Pink French Bulldog is a rare and enchanting hue that stands out in the canine world, a mesmerizing pale coat akin to a soft blush or pastel dawn, often paired with striking blue eyes. This subtle color, which might at first glance be mistaken for albinism, is in fact a light cream or fawn, resulting from rare genetic traits within the breed's DNA. It's important to note that these dogs are not true albinos, although their appearance may share some similarities due to their light pigmentation and eye color.
The "pink" gene refers to this genetic variant that causes a very pale cream or fawn coloration, distinct from regular fawn or cream shades seen in the breed. While the term "pink" is colloquial, the exact genetic basis of this coloration is still under investigation by breeders and geneticists. Genetic testing, such as that offered by UC Davis Veterinary Genetics Laboratory, can help identify the coat color genes and clarify the genetics behind these unique French Bulldog color. The Pink French Bulldog was introduced by a California breeder by the name “Blue Eyed Pinks”.

#### Fluffy French Bulldog
{% include image.html src="fluffy-french-bulldog.webp" alt="fluffy-french bulldog coat color" %}
The Fluffy French Bulldog, with its rare long hair gene, is a coveted variant within the breed, known for its lush, soft coat that sets it apart from the typical sleek-coated Frenchie. While these dogs are a fascination for many, their rarity comes with a significant price tag. For a Fluffy French Bulldog as a family pet, the cost can be around $10,000, a reflection of their unique genetics and the special care required for their luxurious coat. 
A standout in this exclusive category was Valentine, an Isabella fluffy purchased for $300,000 by a breeder, highlighting the extraordinary value placed on such exceptional examples within the breed.
<center><p><a class="uk-button uk-button-danger uk-border-pill uk-button-xlarge my-border-rounded" href="/french-bulldog-puppies"><span data-uk-icon="heart" class="uk-icon"><svg width="20" height="20" viewBox="0 0 20 20" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" data-svg="heart"><path fill="none" stroke="#000" stroke-width="1.03" d="M10,4 C10,4 8.1,2 5.74,2 C3.38,2 1,3.55 1,6.73 C1,8.84 2.67,10.44 2.67,10.44 L10,18 L17.33,10.44 C17.33,10.44 19,8.84 19,6.73 C19,3.55 16.62,2 14.26,2 C11.9,2 10,4 10,4 L10,4 Z"></path></svg></span> View Our Puppies</a></p></center>

#### Final Thoughts:
In closing, the diverse palette of the French Bulldog breed—from the classic brindles to the luxurious Fluffy—is a testament to its uniqueness. Each color variant, with its own genetic intricacies, adds to the breed’s desirability. Whether you’re enchanted by the rare pink or the prestigious Isabella, every Frenchie is cherished for the joy they bring, making them much more than just a pet.

Want to see these colors in their forever homes? Visit our [Happy Tails page](/happy-tails/) to meet real Ethical Frenchie families and their pups.

